We're gonna be going over four
different databases today.
We're gonna be going over MongoDB,
Postgres, Neo4J and Redis.
I chose these four, one, partially, just
because those are the ones I'm familiar
with but also partially cuz I do believe
that those are gonna be the four most
common options and each of these kind of
silos that we're gonna be looking into.
I'm very careful to pin the versions
here so I wrote down these versions.
Because if you take this course in
the future and these versions kinda move
forward, some of the commands now
might not work anymore, right?
Because they change the APIs,
they improve them and things like that.
So you can feel free to try but
just be aware some things might break
if you use a future version of these.
As of writing as of today,
these are the most current versions.
Or at least the most current
versions I could get on Docker.
So yeah, just be aware of versions and
I'm gonna emphasize that again,
just be aware of the versions because this
always happens where people come back and
say your course is broken.
It kind of, anyway, just make sure
you get in the right version.
Okay, so
databases are actually quite large.
They're pretty big pieces of software.
So you have several options
on how to download them.
I'm gonna be using Docker all day
because it makes it very, very easy.
And you don't have to understand Docker.
I will give you all of the commands
that you need to run it will run
on both windows.
It will run on Mac OS I
am obviously on Mac OS,
you can see I have my Windows laptop here,
so I have tried these as well on Windows.
So I'm gonna suggest that you use Docker.
So if you haven't downloaded Docker
desktop, I dropped a link in there,
but you can also just search for
Docker desktop.
Go ahead and go and
install Docker desktop.
Should be looks like something like this,
you'll download it.
Docker desktop will work for
both Mac OS and for Windows.
If you're on Linux, I assume you probably
already know how to operate Docker.
It's probably a pretty safe assumption.
So I'm gonna say far and
above easiest thing to do,
download Docker desktop use that.
There are some other options if
you don't feel like using Docker.
One's gonna be using a package manager
like Homebrew or Winget or Chocolatey and
you can kind of brew, install MongoDB,
that would work as well.
For Linux, you'll be using whatever Distro
like AppGet or whatever that you're using.
You can go and just download
the entire binary yourself for
each of these desktops, or
for all of these databases.
So I dropped links in there for
those, some of these actually have
desktop clients, like I know Neo4j
has a separate desktop client.
I think Postgres does as well.
I think Redis does as well.
They actually might all have their
own individual desktop clients.
I have not used them.
So use at your own risk.
If you're on something like
a Chromebook or something like really,
really lightweight that would
not be able to run a database,
something you could do is you could
spin up like a cloud version, right?
So you could go to like MongoDB Atlas and
spin up a cloud version of this.
You're gonna run into
some difficulties and
I wouldn't know how to advise
you on how to do that but
it's a possibility if your computer
can simply cannot run a database.
Lastly, we're gonna be running some code
samples that those will be in node.js.
Just be above version
10 you should be fine,
I'm not really doing
anything too wild here.
I think I'm on 12.18.4 which I think is
the latest LTS as of like last week or
something like that.
But again, as long as you're above two 12,
I think 15 just came out this week,
so any one of those should be fine.
Cool.
And then you can install
that via the node website or
I use nvm which is a node version manager,
what I would suggest to you.
Okay, so that's kind of like all of the
various different things as long as you
get Docker desktop installed,
you won't have to do anything else.
I'll show you everything on the fly of
how to get stuff running through Docker.